Okay, we've got a really exciting section
of the course right now. We're gonna
start talking about RESTful Web Services.
Now back in the day, when I was
starting as a developer, really the de facto standard at that time was SOAP and
then this guy Richardson comes out with
this book. And we're looking at some of
the big cloud computing giants like the
Amazon's of the day, and what they were
doing and he started spouting patterns
of how they're implementing these simple
RESTful service calls. And actually, I
don't think REST was even a term back
then. But he's looking at these API's and
how they were doing them. It was
kind of a paradigm shift in the industry
because we had these SOAP API calls, SOAP
Web Services. Effectively, SOAP is a
remote procedure call. So you had an
endpoint and you're calling a method and
passing an XML body to it. So that
is a SOAP Service Call. Whereas REST, now
you have a very different paradigm shift,
you're actually constructing the URL to
a resource, like having an ID embedded.
Now you saw that I mimicked that and
some of the Spring MVC stuff that we
talked about earlier in the course. But
now, we're creating a resource URL. But
now, with RESTful services, we can also
use all the HTTP verbs to work with
these resources. So we can do a put, we
can do a delete to delete a resource. So
this is very important as far as working
with these. So in this part of the course,
we're gonna do is look at this. Why
this is significant paradigm shift in
how what web services are written. So
this is really a iconic book. It really
kind of shifted the industry after this
came out. And around this time, that's why
REST service is really caught on fire.
And you'll see why we wanna use them
because it really does make our API very
generic so any client can use it. Because
at the time when this came out, we were
dealing with SOAP. Microsoft has had their
own little flavor of SOAP. But even though it
was a standard in the Java community had
theirs, they didn't always play
nicely together. So he always had to
tweak some stuff
to make it the Microsoft way.
Here on the other hand, with REST, it
really doesn't matter if you're using a
.net client, it could be an AngularJS
client, it could be nodeJS, it could be
Python or Ruby or of course Java or even
C++. It could be a mobile application
using objective of C. So all these
clients become kind of and it doesn't
matter. As long as they adhere to the
HTTP standards, you're good to go. So in
this section of the course, we're gonna
get into some fun stuff. We're gonna
talk about this more for sure. I got a
whole section on the course or a whole
lecture talking about this guy's
maturity model the Richardson maturity
model, and then we're gonna get into
working with REST clients. First, we're
gonna consume RESTful services using
the Spring Framework and just get our
hands with seeing how these REST
clients interact with the API. Then
in the next section of the course, we are
actually gonna write our own API's
using the Spring Framework.